README.md, before:

# React Image Lightbox

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/react-image-lightbox.png)](https://npmjs.org/package/react-image-lightbox)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox?branch=master)

[![RIL Snapshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4413963/31209033-78f60df0-a9c3-11e7-8f83-69998d46973e.png)](https://frontend-collective.github.io/react-image-lightbox/)

A flexible lightbox component for displaying images in a React project.

[DEMO](https://frontend-collective.github.io/react-image-lightbox/)

Features

- Keyboard shortcuts (with rate limiting)
- Image Zoom
- Flexible rendering using src values assigned on the fly
- Image preloading for smoother viewing
- Mobile friendly, with pinch to zoom and swipe (Thanks, [@webcarrot](https://github.com/webcarrot)!)

## Example

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import Lightbox from 'react-image-lightbox';
import 'react-image-lightbox/style.css'; // This only needs to be imported once in your app

const images = [
  '//placekitten.com/1500/500',
  '//placekitten.com/4000/3000',
  '//placekitten.com/800/1200',
  '//placekitten.com/1500/1500',
];

export default class LightboxExample extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = {
      photoIndex: 0,
      isOpen: false,
    };
  }

  render() {
    const { photoIndex, isOpen } = this.state;

    return (
      <div>
        <button type="button" onClick={() => this.setState({ isOpen: true })}>
          Open Lightbox
        </button>

        {isOpen && (
          <Lightbox
            mainSrc={images[photoIndex]}
            nextSrc={images[(photoIndex + 1) % images.length]}
            prevSrc={images[(photoIndex + images.length - 1) % images.length]}
            onCloseRequest={() => this.setState({ isOpen: false })}
            onMovePrevRequest={() =>
              this.setState({
                photoIndex: (photoIndex + images.length - 1) % images.length,
              })
            }
            onMoveNextRequest={() =>
              this.setState({
                photoIndex: (photoIndex + 1) % images.length,
              })
            }
          />
        )}
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

Play with the code on the [example on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/l9n3vnz8yz)

## Options

| Property                        |  Type  | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| :------------------------------ | :----: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| mainSrc<br/>_(required)_        | string | Main display image url                                                                                                                                        |
| prevSrc                         | string | Previous display image url (displayed to the left). If left undefined, `onMovePrevRequest` will not be called, and the button not displayed                   |
| nextSrc                         | string | Next display image url (displayed to the right). If left undefined, `onMoveNextRequest` will not be called, and the button not displayed                      |
| mainSrcThumbnail                | string | Thumbnail image url corresponding to `props.mainSrc`. Displayed as a placeholder while the full-sized image loads.                                            |
| prevSrcThumbnail                | string | Thumbnail image url corresponding to `props.prevSrc`. Displayed as a placeholder while the full-sized image loads.                                            |
| nextSrcThumbnail                | string | Thumbnail image url corresponding to `props.nextSrc`. Displayed as a placeholder while the full-sized image loads.                                            |
| onCloseRequest<br/>_(required)_ |  func  | Close window event. Should change the parent state such that the lightbox is not rendered                                                                     |
| onMovePrevRequest               |  func  | Move to previous image event. Should change the parent state such that `props.prevSrc` becomes `props.mainSrc`, `props.mainSrc` becomes `props.nextSrc`, etc. |
| onMoveNextRequest               |  func  | Move to next image event. Should change the parent state such that `props.nextSrc` becomes `props.mainSrc`, `props.mainSrc` becomes `props.prevSrc`, etc.     |
| onImageLoad                     |  func  | Called when an image loads.<div>`(imageSrc: string, srcType: string, image: object): void`</div>                                                              |
| onImageLoadError                |  func  | Called when an image fails to load.<div>`(imageSrc: string, srcType: string, errorEvent: object): void`</div>                                                 |
| imageLoadErrorMessage           |  node  | What is rendered in place of an image if it fails to load. Centered in the lightbox viewport. Defaults to the string `"This image failed to load"`.           |
| onAfterOpen                     |  func  | Called after the modal has rendered.                                                                                                                          |
| discourageDownloads             |  bool  | When `true`, enables download discouragement (preventing [right-click -> Save Image As...]). Defaults to `false`.                                             |
| animationDisabled               |  bool  | When `true`, image sliding animations are disabled. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                      |
| animationOnKeyInput             |  bool  | When `true`, sliding animations are enabled on actions performed with keyboard shortcuts. Defaults to `false`.                                                |
| animationDuration               | number | Animation duration (ms). Defaults to `300`.                                                                                                                   |
| keyRepeatLimit                  | number | Required interval of time (ms) between key actions (prevents excessively fast navigation of images). Defaults to `180`.                                       |
| keyRepeatKeyupBonus             | number | Amount of time (ms) restored after each keyup (makes rapid key presses slightly faster than holding down the key to navigate images). Defaults to `40`.       |
| imageTitle                      |  node  | Image title (Descriptive element above image)                                                                                                                 |
| imageCaption                    |  node  | Image caption (Descriptive element below image)                                                                                                               |
| imageCrossOrigin                | string | `crossorigin` attribute to append to `img` elements ([MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#attr-crossorigin))     |
| toolbarButtons                  | node[] | Array of custom toolbar buttons                                                                                                                               |
| reactModalStyle                 | Object | Set `z-index` style, etc., for the parent react-modal ([react-modal style format](https://github.com/reactjs/react-modal#styles))                             |
| reactModalProps                 | Object | Override props set on react-modal (https://github.com/reactjs/react-modal)                                                                                    |
| imagePadding                    | number | Padding (px) between the edge of the window and the lightbox. Defaults to `10`.                                                                               |
| clickOutsideToClose             |  bool  | When `true`, clicks outside of the image close the lightbox. Defaults to `true`.                                                                              |
| enableZoom                      |  bool  | Set to `false` to disable zoom functionality and hide zoom buttons. Defaults to `true`.                                                                       |
| wrapperClassName                | string | Class name which will be applied to root element after React Modal                                                                                            |
| nextLabel                       | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Next' button. Defaults to `'Next image'`.                                                                                |
| prevLabel                       | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Previous' button. Defaults to `'Previous image'`.                                                                        |
| zoomInLabel                     | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Zoom In' button. Defaults to `'Zoom in'`.                                                                                |
| zoomOutLabel                    | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Zoom Out' button. Defaults to `'Zoom out'`.                                                                              |
| closeLabel                      | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Close Lightbox' button. Defaults to `'Close lightbox'`.                                                                  |
| loader                          |  node  | Custom Loading indicator for loading                                                                                                                          |

## Browser Compatibility

| Browser | Works? |
| :------ | :----- |
| Chrome  | Yes    |
| Firefox | Yes    |
| Safari  | Yes    |
| IE 11   | Yes    |

## Contributing

After cloning the repository and running `npm install` inside, you can use the following commands to develop and build the project.

```sh
# Starts a webpack dev server that hosts a demo page with the lightbox.
# It uses react-hot-loader so changes are reflected on save.
npm start

# Lints the code with eslint and my custom rules.
yarn run lint

# Lints and builds the code, placing the result in the dist directory.
# This build is necessary to reflect changes if you're
#  `npm link`-ed to this repository from another local project.
yarn run build
```

Pull requests are welcome!

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Drop support for imageCaption - use footer instead because it's more generic. Update enzyme + adapters.

README.md, after:

# React Image Lightbox

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/react-image-lightbox.png)](https://npmjs.org/package/react-image-lightbox)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/frontend-collective/react-image-lightbox?branch=master)

[![RIL Snapshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4413963/31209033-78f60df0-a9c3-11e7-8f83-69998d46973e.png)](https://frontend-collective.github.io/react-image-lightbox/)

A flexible lightbox component for displaying images in a React project.

[DEMO](https://frontend-collective.github.io/react-image-lightbox/)

Features

- Keyboard shortcuts (with rate limiting)
- Image Zoom
- Flexible rendering using src values assigned on the fly
- Image preloading for smoother viewing
- Mobile friendly, with pinch to zoom and swipe (Thanks, [@webcarrot](https://github.com/webcarrot)!)

## Example

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import Lightbox from 'react-image-lightbox';
import 'react-image-lightbox/style.css'; // This only needs to be imported once in your app

const images = [
  '//placekitten.com/1500/500',
  '//placekitten.com/4000/3000',
  '//placekitten.com/800/1200',
  '//placekitten.com/1500/1500',
];

export default class LightboxExample extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = {
      photoIndex: 0,
      isOpen: false,
    };
  }

  render() {
    const { photoIndex, isOpen } = this.state;

    return (
      <div>
        <button type="button" onClick={() => this.setState({ isOpen: true })}>
          Open Lightbox
        </button>

        {isOpen && (
          <Lightbox
            mainSrc={images[photoIndex]}
            nextSrc={images[(photoIndex + 1) % images.length]}
            prevSrc={images[(photoIndex + images.length - 1) % images.length]}
            onCloseRequest={() => this.setState({ isOpen: false })}
            onMovePrevRequest={() =>
              this.setState({
                photoIndex: (photoIndex + images.length - 1) % images.length,
              })
            }
            onMoveNextRequest={() =>
              this.setState({
                photoIndex: (photoIndex + 1) % images.length,
              })
            }
          />
        )}
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

Play with the code on the [example on CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/l9n3vnz8yz)

## Options

| Property                        |  Type  | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| :------------------------------ | :----: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| mainSrc<br/>_(required)_        | string | Main display image url                                                                                                                                        |
| prevSrc                         | string | Previous display image url (displayed to the left). If left undefined, `onMovePrevRequest` will not be called, and the button not displayed                   |
| nextSrc                         | string | Next display image url (displayed to the right). If left undefined, `onMoveNextRequest` will not be called, and the button not displayed                      |
| mainSrcThumbnail                | string | Thumbnail image url corresponding to `props.mainSrc`. Displayed as a placeholder while the full-sized image loads.                                            |
| prevSrcThumbnail                | string | Thumbnail image url corresponding to `props.prevSrc`. Displayed as a placeholder while the full-sized image loads.                                            |
| nextSrcThumbnail                | string | Thumbnail image url corresponding to `props.nextSrc`. Displayed as a placeholder while the full-sized image loads.                                            |
| onCloseRequest<br/>_(required)_ |  func  | Close window event. Should change the parent state such that the lightbox is not rendered                                                                     |
| onMovePrevRequest               |  func  | Move to previous image event. Should change the parent state such that `props.prevSrc` becomes `props.mainSrc`, `props.mainSrc` becomes `props.nextSrc`, etc. |
| onMoveNextRequest               |  func  | Move to next image event. Should change the parent state such that `props.nextSrc` becomes `props.mainSrc`, `props.mainSrc` becomes `props.prevSrc`, etc.     |
| onImageLoad                     |  func  | Called when an image loads.<div>`(imageSrc: string, srcType: string, image: object): void`</div>                                                              |
| onImageLoadError                |  func  | Called when an image fails to load.<div>`(imageSrc: string, srcType: string, errorEvent: object): void`</div>                                                 |
| imageLoadErrorMessage           |  node  | What is rendered in place of an image if it fails to load. Centered in the lightbox viewport. Defaults to the string `"This image failed to load"`.           |
| onAfterOpen                     |  func  | Called after the modal has rendered.                                                                                                                          |
| discourageDownloads             |  bool  | When `true`, enables download discouragement (preventing [right-click -> Save Image As...]). Defaults to `false`.                                             |
| animationDisabled               |  bool  | When `true`, image sliding animations are disabled. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                      |
| animationOnKeyInput             |  bool  | When `true`, sliding animations are enabled on actions performed with keyboard shortcuts. Defaults to `false`.                                                |
| animationDuration               | number | Animation duration (ms). Defaults to `300`.                                                                                                                   |
| keyRepeatLimit                  | number | Required interval of time (ms) between key actions (prevents excessively fast navigation of images). Defaults to `180`.                                       |
| keyRepeatKeyupBonus             | number | Amount of time (ms) restored after each keyup (makes rapid key presses slightly faster than holding down the key to navigate images). Defaults to `40`.       |
| imageTitle                      |  node  | Image title (Descriptive element above image)                                                                                                                 |
| imageCrossOrigin                | string | `crossorigin` attribute to append to `img` elements ([MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#attr-crossorigin))     |
| toolbarButtons                  | node[] | Array of custom toolbar buttons                                                                                                                               |
| reactModalStyle                 | Object | Set `z-index` style, etc., for the parent react-modal ([react-modal style format](https://github.com/reactjs/react-modal#styles))                             |
| reactModalProps                 | Object | Override props set on react-modal (https://github.com/reactjs/react-modal)                                                                                    |
| imagePadding                    | number | Padding (px) between the edge of the window and the lightbox. Defaults to `10`.                                                                               |
| clickOutsideToClose             |  bool  | When `true`, clicks outside of the image close the lightbox. Defaults to `true`.                                                                              |
| enableZoom                      |  bool  | Set to `false` to disable zoom functionality and hide zoom buttons. Defaults to `true`.                                                                       |
| wrapperClassName                | string | Class name which will be applied to root element after React Modal                                                                                            |
| nextLabel                       | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Next' button. Defaults to `'Next image'`.                                                                                |
| prevLabel                       | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Previous' button. Defaults to `'Previous image'`.                                                                        |
| zoomInLabel                     | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Zoom In' button. Defaults to `'Zoom in'`.                                                                                |
| zoomOutLabel                    | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Zoom Out' button. Defaults to `'Zoom out'`.                                                                              |
| closeLabel                      | string | `aria-label` and `title` set on the 'Close Lightbox' button. Defaults to `'Close lightbox'`.                                                                  |
| loader                          |  node  | Custom Loading indicator for loading                                                                                                                          |
| children                        |  node  | Content to appear below modal                                                                                                                                 |
| footer                          |  node  | Content to appear in bottom part of modal                                                                                                                     |

## Browser Compatibility

| Browser | Works?        |
| :------ | :------------ |
| Chrome  | Yes           |
| Firefox | Yes           |
| Safari  | Yes           |
| IE 11   | Not supported |

## Contributing

After cloning the repository and running `npm install` inside, you can use the following commands to develop and build the project.

```sh
# Starts a webpack dev server that hosts a demo page with the lightbox.
# It uses react-hot-loader so changes are reflected on save.
npm start

# Lints the code with eslint and my custom rules.
yarn run lint

# Lints and builds the code, placing the result in the dist directory.
# This build is necessary to reflect changes if you're
#  `npm link`-ed to this repository from another local project.
yarn run build
```

Pull requests are welcome!

## License

MIT
